A DCGAN is made of two networks,
a generator and a discriminator.
We'll be defining both of these according to the original paper on DCGANs.
Let's start with the discriminator.
The discriminator is a convolutional neural network
with one fully connected layer at the end.
They should take in an image is input and output of value that
indicates whether that image is real and from our training data or fake.
Notice that, unlike most convolutional networks that you've seen,
there are no maxpooling layers in this network.
Instead, the down-sampling is done entirely with
convolutional layers that have a stride equal to two.
For example, let's say this model sees one of our house number images as input.
These are 32 by 32 in the x and y dimensions,
and three in depth.
We can slide our convolutional kernel over this to
create an output filtered image in the convolutional layer.
If the kernel moves over the image with a stride of two,
then for every two pixels it sees in the input image,
it will create one pixel in the output filtered image.
Effectively, down-sampling the image by a factor of two.
So, the output will be a 16 by 16 stack of filtered images of some depth that we specify.
This time, all the hidden layers have something called
batch normalization and leaky ReLu activations applied to their outputs.
A Leaky ReLu function will reduce any negative values it
sees by multiplying those values by some smart coefficient,
often called the negative slope.
The batch normalization, scales
the layer outputs to have a mean of zero and variance of one.
By scaling the outputs to a consistent range,
this normalization step helps the network train faster
and reduces problems due to poor parameter initialization.
We'll cover batch normalization more later on.
Now, after a series of downsampling convolutional layers,
the final convolutional layer is flattened and connected to a single sigmoid unit.
To get an output and a range from zero to one,
indicating whether an image is fake or real.
So, this makes up the first part of a DCGAN.
Next, let's talk about the generator.